agamben_louvert.md:In as much as in it is in play the production of the human by the opposition man/animal, human/inhuman, the machine functions necessarily by an exclusion (which is also and always already a capture) and an inclusion (which is always and already an exclusion). It is precisely because the human is, in effect, each time already presupposed, that the machine produces in reality a kind of state of exception, a zone of indetermination where the outside is only the exclusion of the inside and the inside, in its turn, only an exclusion of the outside. (59) 37
agamben_louvert.md:Understand their functioning in order to able, perhaps, to stop them. (61)
agamben_louvert.md:Even the pure and simple abandon of historical tasks (reduced to simple internal and international policing functions), in the name of the triumph of the economy, often assumes an importance today where natural life itself and the well-being associated with it seems to present itself as the last historical task of human - assuming that to speak of 'task' could still make sense (116)
allen_getting_things_2001.md:It's possible for a person to have an overwhelming number of things to do and still function productively with a clear head and a positive sense of relaxed control. That's a great way to live and work, at elevated levels of effectiveness and efficiency. 3
allen_getting_things_2001.md:These has been a missing piece in our new culture of knowledge work: a system with a coherent set of behaviours and tools that functions effectively at the level at which work really happens. 9
archaelogy.md:The never completed, never wholly achieved uncovering of the archive forms the general horizon to which the description of discursive formations, the analysis of positivities, the mapping of the enunciative field belong. The right of words - which is not that of the philologists - authorizes, therefore, the use of the term archaeology to describe all these searches. This term does not imply the search for a beginning; it does not relate analysis to geological excavation. It designates the general theme of a description that questions the already-said at the level of its existence: of the enunciative function that operates within it, of the discursive formation, and the general archive system to which it belongs. Archaeology describes discourses as practices specified in the element of the archive (Archaeology 131). 
balibar.md:It is the relationship of each individual to other individualities and their reciprocal actions and passions which determine the form of the individual's desire and actuate its power. Singularity is a trans-individual function. It is a function of communication. 108
balibar_spinoza.md:It is the relationship of each individual to other individualities and their reciprocal actions and passions which determine the form of the individual's desire and actuate its power. Singularity is a trans-individual function. It is a function of communication. 108
barney_network_2004.md:The distinction I am drawing here is between the network society thesis as a tool of investigation and interpretation, and the rhetoric of the Network Society as an ideological discourse that serves a performative, prescriptive function. 181
barry_2001.md:A second kind of space established by scientific and technological development is what Arjun Appadurai has called technoscapes and I have called technological zones of circulation.  These are spaces formed when  technical devices, practices, artefacts and experimental materials are made more or less comparable or connectable. They therefore link together different sites of scientific and technical practice. Such zones take different forms. The points of access to the zones may be more or less clearly marked, with more or less well-defined and functioning gateways. (202-3)
benjamin_work_of_art.md:In principle a work of art has always been reproducible. Man-made artifacts could always be imitated by men. Replicas were made by pupils in practice of their craft, by masters for diffusing their works, and, finally, by third parties in the pursuit of gain. Mechanical reproduction of a work of art, however, represents something new. Historically, it advanced intermittently and in leaps at long intervals, but with accelerated intensity. The Greeks knew only two procedures of technically reproducing works of art: founding and stamping. Bronzes, terra cottas, and coins were the only art works which they could produce in quantity. All others were unique and could not be mechanically reproduced. With the woodcut graphic art became mechanically reproducible for the first time, long before script became reproducible by print. The enormous changes which printing, the mechanical reproduction of writing, has brought about in literature are a familiar story. However, within the phenomenon which we are here examining from the perspective of world history, print is merely a special, though particularly important, case. During the Middle Ages engraving and etching were added to the woodcut; at the beginning of the nineteenth century lithography made its appearance. With lithography the technique of reproduction reached an essentially new stage. This much more direct process was distinguished by the tracing of the design on a stone rather than its incision on a block of wood or its etching on a copperplate and permitted graphic art for the first time to put its products on the market, not only in large numbers as hitherto, but also in daily changing forms. Lithography enabled graphic art to illustrate everyday life, and it began to keep pace with printing. But only a few decades after its invention, lithography was surpassed by photography. For the first time in the process of pictorial reproduction, photography freed the hand of the most important artistic functions which henceforth devolved only upon the eye looking into a lens. Since the eye perceives more swiftly than the hand can draw, the process of pictorial reproduction was accelerated so enormously that it could keep pace with speech. A film operator shooting a scene in the studio captures the images at the speed of an actor’s speech. Just as lithography virtually implied the illustrated newspaper, so did photography foreshadow the sound film. The technical reproduction of sound was tackled at the end of the last century. These convergent endeavors made predictable a situation which Paul Valery pointed up in this sentence:
benjamin_work_of_art.md:The uniqueness of a work of art is inseparable from its being imbedded in the fabric of tradition. This tradition itself is thoroughly alive and extremely changeable. An ancient statue of Venus, for example, stood in a different traditional context with the Greeks, who made it an object of veneration, than with the clerics of the Middle Ages, who viewed it as an ominous idol. Both of them, however, were equally confronted with its uniqueness, that is, its aura. Originally the contextual integration of art in tradition found its expression in the cult. We know that the earliest art works originated in the service of a ritual – first the magical, then the religious kind. It is significant that the existence of the work of art with reference to its aura is never entirely separated from its ritual function. In other words, the unique value of the “authentic” work of art has its basis in ritual, the location of its original use value. This ritualistic basis, however remote, is still recognizable as secularized ritual even in the most profane forms of the cult of beauty. The secular cult of beauty, developed during the Renaissance and prevailing for three centuries, clearly showed that ritualistic basis in its decline and the first deep crisis which befell it. With the advent of the first truly revolutionary means of reproduction, photography, simultaneously with the rise of socialism, art sensed the approaching crisis which has become evident a century later. At the time, art reacted with the doctrine of l’art pour l’art, that is, with a theology of art. This gave rise to what might be called a negative theology in the form of the idea of “pure” art, which not only denied any social function of art but also any categorizing by subject matter. (In poetry, Mallarme was the first to take this position.)
benjamin_work_of_art.md:An analysis of art in the age of mechanical reproduction must do justice to these relationships, for they lead us to an all-important insight: for the first time in world history, mechanical reproduction emancipates the work of art from its parasitical dependence on ritual. To an ever greater degree the work of art reproduced becomes the work of art designed for reproducibility. From a photographic negative, for example, one can make any number of prints; to ask for the “authentic” print makes no sense. But the instant the criterion of authenticity ceases to be applicable to artistic production, the total function of art is reversed. Instead of being based on ritual, it begins to be based on another practice – politics.
benjamin_work_of_art.md:With the different methods of technical reproduction of a work of art, its fitness for exhibition increased to such an extent that the quantitative shift between its two poles turned into a qualitative transformation of its nature. This is comparable to the situation of the work of art in prehistoric times when, by the absolute emphasis on its cult value, it was, first and foremost, an instrument of magic. Only later did it come to be recognized as a work of art. In the same way today, by the absolute emphasis on its exhibition value the work of art becomes a creation with entirely new functions, among which the one we are conscious of, the artistic function, later may be recognized as incidental. This much is certain: today photography and the film are the most serviceable exemplifications of this new function.
benjamin_work_of_art.md:The nineteenth-century dispute as to the artistic value of painting versus photography today seems devious and confused. This does not diminish its importance, however; if anything, it underlines it. The dispute was in fact the symptom of a historical transformation the universal impact of which was not realized by either of the rivals. When the age of mechanical reproduction separated art from its basis in cult, the semblance of its autonomy disappeared forever. The resulting change in the function of art transcended the perspective of the century; for a long time it even escaped that of the twentieth century, which experienced the development of the film. Earlier much futile thought had been devoted to the question of whether photography is an art. The primary question – whether the very invention of photography had not transformed the entire nature of art – was not raised. Soon the film theoreticians asked the same ill-considered question with regard to the film. But the difficulties which photography caused traditional aesthetics were mere child’s play as compared to those raised by the film. Whence the insensitive and forced character of early theories of the film. Abel Gance, for instance, compares the film with hieroglyphs: “Here, by a remarkable regression, we have come back to the level of expression of the Egyptians ... Pictorial language has not yet matured because our eyes have not yet adjusted to it. There is as yet insufficient respect for, insufficient cult of, what it expresses.” Or, in the words of Séverin-Mars: “What art has been granted a dream more poetical and more real at the same time! Approached in this fashion the film might represent an incomparable means of expression. Only the most high-minded persons, in the most perfect and mysterious moments of their lives, should be allowed to enter its ambience.” Alexandre Arnoux concludes his fantasy about the silent film with the question: “Do not all the bold descriptions we have given amount to the definition of prayer?” It is instructive to note how their desire to class the film among the “arts” forces these theoreticians to read ritual elements into it – with a striking lack of discretion. Yet when these speculations were published, films like L’Opinion publique and The Gold Rush had already appeared. This, however, did not keep Abel Gance from adducing hieroglyphs for purposes of comparison, nor Séverin-Mars from speaking of the film as one might speak of paintings by Fra Angelico. Characteristically, even today ultrareactionary authors give the film a similar contextual significance – if not an outright sacred one, then at least a supernatural one. Commenting on Max Reinhardt’s film version of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Werfel states that undoubtedly it was the sterile copying of the exterior world with its streets, interiors, railroad stations, restaurants, motorcars, and beaches which until now had obstructed the elevation of the film to the realm of art. “The film has not yet realized its true meaning, its real possibilities ... these consist in its unique faculty to express by natural means and with incomparable persuasiveness all that is fairylike, marvelous, supernatural.”
benjamin_work_of_art.md:For centuries a small number of writers were confronted by many thousands of readers. This changed toward the end of the last century. With the increasing extension of the press, which kept placing new political, religious, scientific, professional, and local organs before the readers, an increasing number of readers became writers – at first, occasional ones. It began with the daily press opening to its readers space for “letters to the editor.” And today there is hardly a gainfully employed European who could not, in principle, find an opportunity to publish somewhere or other comments on his work, grievances, documentary reports, or that sort of thing. Thus, the distinction between author and public is about to lose its basic character. The difference becomes merely functional; it may vary from case to case. At any moment the reader is ready to turn into a writer. As expert, which he had to become willy-nilly in an extremely specialized work process, even if only in some minor respect, the reader gains access to authorship. In the Soviet Union work itself is given a voice. To present it verbally is part of a man’s ability to perform the work. Literary license is now founded on polytechnic rather than specialized training and thus becomes common property.
benjamin_work_of_art.md:The characteristics of the film lie not only in the manner in which man presents himself to mechanical equipment but also in the manner in which, by means of this apparatus, man can represent his environment. A glance at occupational psychology illustrates the testing capacity of the equipment. Psychoanalysis illustrates it in a different perspective. The film has enriched our field of perception with methods which can be illustrated by those of Freudian theory. Fifty years ago, a slip of the tongue passed more or less unnoticed. Only exceptionally may such a slip have revealed dimensions of depth in a conversation which had seemed to be taking its course on the surface. Since the Psychopathology of Everyday Life things have changed. This book isolated and made analyzable things which had heretofore floated along unnoticed in the broad stream of perception. For the entire spectrum of optical, and now also acoustical, perception the film has brought about a similar deepening of apperception. It is only an obverse of this fact that behavior items shown in a movie can be analyzed much more precisely and from more points of view than those presented on paintings or on the stage. As compared with painting, filmed behavior lends itself more readily to analysis because of its incomparably more precise statements of the situation. In comparison with the stage scene, the filmed behavior item lends itself more readily to analysis because it can be isolated more easily. This circumstance derives its chief importance from its tendency to promote the mutual penetration of art and science. Actually, of a screened behavior item which is neatly brought out in a certain situation, like a muscle of a body, it is difficult to say which is more fascinating, its artistic value or its value for science. To demonstrate the identity of the artistic and scientific uses of photography which heretofore usually were separated will be one of the revolutionary functions of the film.
benkler.md:number of firms with such absorption capacity, or the ability to function at the edge of the state 
benkler_wealth.md:number of firms with such absorption capacity, or the ability to function at the edge of the state 
berland_evolution_2000.md:The discourse of evolutionism functions as an alibi for social Darwinism in the public sphere, and for corporate expansion and innovation unimpeded by collective democratic participation. The rendering of technological change as a law of nature works to defend economic and technological relations from social debate and critique, and thus from the production of communal rather than competitive spaces. 255
berlant_cruel_optimism,_2007.md:this state of precarity means that the promises of upward mobility previously shared by working-class and migrant labourers in the United States and Europe now function fictionally. Instead, the promise of later happiness resonates as an empty dream that our attachments actually work to undermine, are indeed ‘a central part of the reproduction of the difficulty of their singular lives and lived struggle on the bottom of class society in the first place’ (Berlant, 2007a, p. 278). We agree to participate in a story about ‘the good life’ that substitutes for real social advancement in an era in which social relations are  ever more untethered. 
berlant_et_al.md:this state of precarity means that the promises of upward mobility previously shared by working-class and migrant labourers in the United States and Europe now function fictionally. Instead, the promise of later happiness resonates as an empty dream that our attachments actually work to undermine, are indeed ‘a central part of the reproduction of the difficulty of their singular lives and lived struggle on the bottom of class society in the first place’ (Berlant, 2007a, p. 278). We agree to participate in a story about ‘the good life’ that substitutes for real social advancement in an era in which social relations are  ever more untethered. 
borden_skating_2004.md:When skateboarders ride along a wall, over a fire hydrant or up a building, they are entirely indifferent to its function or ideological content. They are therefore no longer even concerned with its presence as a building,as a composition of spaces and materials logically disposed to create a coherent urban entity. 293
bourdieu_pascalian_2000.md:The social world is full of calls to order  which function as such only for individuals who are predisposed to notice them, and which, as a red light cause braking, trigger deep-rooted bodily dispositions without passing through consciousness and calculation. 176
bourdieu_pascalian_meditations.md:The social world is full of calls to order  which function as such only for individuals who are predisposed to notice them, and which, as a red light cause braking, trigger deep-rooted bodily dispositions without passing through consciousness and calculation. 176
boyce_diprima_convolution.md:The function h is known as the convolution of f and g; the integrals are known as convolution integrals 254
breiman_2001_andom_forests.md:Although the bound is likely to be loose, it fulfills the same suggestive function for random
breiman_2001_andom_forests.md:classifiers in the forest, and the correlation between them in terms of the raw margin functions [@breiman_random_2001, 9]
breiman_friedman.md:A classifier or classification rule is a function $d(\mathbf{x})$ defined on $\mathcal{X}$ so that for every $\mathbf{x}$, $d(\mathbf{x})$ is equal to one of the numbers $1, 2, ..., J$. 4
breiman_friedman.md:The goodness of split criterion was originally derived from an impurity function. 32
breiman_friedman.md:An impurity function is a function $\phi$ defined on the,  set of J-tuples of numbers $(p_1, ..., p_j)$ satisfying $p_j \geq 0$, $j=1, ..., J,  \sum{p_j} = 1$ with the properties
breiman_friedman.md:(iii) $\phi$ is a symmetric function of $p_1, ..., p_j$
breiman_friedman.md:Given an impurity function $\phi$, define the impurity measure $i(t)$ of any node $t$ as
brennan_exhausting_2000.md:Like the hallucination, the commodity provides a point of resistance, in that it encapsulates living nature in forms which are removed from the flow of life. It functions analogously with hallucinations in that it makes living substances inert relative to the energetic movement of life. We can assume that the more of these relatively inert points there are, the slower the movement of life becomes. 68
burges_svm_tutoria_1998l.md:shattered by that set of functions. The VC dimension for the set of functions {f (α)} is
burges_svm_tutorial_1998.md:shattered by that set of functions. The VC dimension for the set of functions {f (α)} is
burkill_mathematical_1962.md:The notion of a limit rests on that of a _function_. The curve of which we were finding the gradient was specified by the function $f(x)$. The sume $s_n$ of the first $n$ terms of the geometric progression  is expressed as a function of $n$ of the geometric progression is expressed as a function of $n$ by 
burkill_mathematical_1962.md:The idea of a function in its turn rests o that of _number_. The equation $y=f(x)$ of the curve expresses a connection between the number $x$ and the number $y$. 2
burkill_mathematical_1962.md:Commonly the step from the experimental data or the hypotheses to the conclusions that they can be made to yield lies in solving _differential equations._ Relations are given connecting an unknown function with its first or second (or higher) derivates, and the function has to be found. The analyst is led to keep a stock of such functions as occur repeatedly. 104
burkill_mathematical_1962.md:The exponential function
cheah_inhuman_2006.md:The fact that the proper functioning of a political public sphere is always dependent on external formative conditions puts the autonomy of the political into question. Put another way, the spontaneity of Offentlichkeit is not quite that of the self-recursive organism. Because the economic conditions for public deliberation are established by instrumental action or techne, its spontaneity is itself is a product of techne. 78
clark.md:We thus confront a second sense of emergence-one that turns on the idea of functionally valuable side effects brought about by the interaction of heterogeneous components, and which foregrounds the notion of interactions between  behaviour systems and local environmental structures. (Clark, 1997, 109)
clark.md:(1)An account of the gross behaviours of the well-functioning organism in the environment-an account that may invoke collective variables whose componential roots span brain, body, and world.
cscw.md:To what extent are groups as traditionally conceptualised, relevant to modern business functioning. Can we reconcile the results of studies done on group process in the lab with what seems to happen within organizations? Might we do better if we understand how decision making is actually occurring in organizations, in a distributed fashion, rather than in some centralised group fashion. Detailed, on the ground, studies would appear to be called for here. Page 15 of 19 
cscw.md:There is a concern about the social & organizational aspects of decision making and technology support, which go beyond sterile conceptions of "context" as an additional variable that needs to be added to our existing models. The limitations of the models we build and use need to be recognised. There is an interest in allowing for richer forms of interpretation of how people function in organizations, and of how actions are taken. The information processing view of how people function is being enriched, if not replaced, by a range of perspectives such as symbolic interactionism, ethnomethodology, cultural-historical theory, phenomenology, which require us to re-examine the ontologies and epistemologies espoused in traditional material. However, this paper is not so much a Page 4 of 19
de_certeau_walking_2001.md:Physical moving about has the itinerant function of yesterday's  or today's superstitions. Travel (like walking) is a substitute for the legends that use to open up space to something different. 133
deleuze_foucault.md:'a diagram' 'a functioning, abstracted from any obstacle ... or friction' 34
deleuze_foucault.md:(this in the context of seeing how matter and function are formed'
deleuze_foucault.md:every diagram is intersocial and constantly evolving. It never functions in order to represent a persisting world but produces a new kind of reality, a new model of truth. ... It makes history by unmaking preceding realities and significations, constituting hundreds of points of emergence or creativity, unexpected conjunctions or improbable continuums.35
deleuze_foucault.md:a most original conception of the 'statement' which viewed it as a function that crosses different unities, tracing a diagonal line more aking to music than to a signifying system. 52
deleuze_guattari_mille.md:Writing now functions on the same level as the real, and the real materially writes. The diagram retains the most deterritorialized content and the most deterritorialized expression, in order to conjugate them. 141
deleuze_guattari_mille.md:The diagram knows only traits and cutting edges are still elements of content insofar as they are material and of expression insofar as they are functional 142
deleuze_guattari_mille.md:Strata could never organize themselves if they did not harness diagrammatic matters or functions and formalize them from the standpoint of both expression and content. 144
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:The object of science is not concepts but rather functions that are presented as propositions in discursive systems. 117
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:The elements of functions are called functives. 117
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:When an object – a geometrical space, for example – is scientifically constructed by functions, its philosophical concept, which is by no means given in the function, must still be discovered. 117
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:It is a a fantastic slowing down,  and it is by slowing down that matter, as well as the scientific thought able to penetrate it with propositions, is actualized. A function is a Slow-motion. 118
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:The etats des choses is a function: it is a complex variable that depends on a relation between at least two independent variables 122
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:An etats des choses or “derivative” function depends on such a relation: an operation of depotentialization has been carried out that makes possible the comparison of distinct powers starting from which a thing or a body may well develop (integration). 122
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:When we go from the state of affairs to the thing itself, we see that a thing is always related to several exes at once according to variables that are functions of each other, even if the internal unit remains undetermined.  122
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:But when the things itself undergoes changes of coordinates, strictly speaking it becomes a body, and instead of the function taking the limit and the variable as reference, it takes an invariant and a group of transformations. 122
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:Concepts and functions thus appear as two types of multiplicities or varieties whose natures are different. 127
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:science brings to light partial observers  in relation to functions within systems of reference.129
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:But the fact that there are specifically philosophical perceptions and affections and specifically scientific ones --- in short, sensibilia of the concept and sensibilia of the function – already indicates the basis of a relationship between science and philosophy, science and art … such that we can say that a function is beautiful. 132
deleuze_guattari_what_is_1997.md:The function in science determines a state of affairs, thing, or body that actualizes the virtual on a plane of reference and in a system of coordinates 133
edwards_closed_world.md:Most modern computers perform three basic types of functions: calculation, communication and control. The computers of the 1940s could not yet do this; they were calculators pure and simple. 66
edwards_infrastructures_2003.md:constructivist arguments not only depend upon, but actually function by, reduction to micro scales of time and social organization. 223
empire .md:The anthropological metamorphoses of bodies are established through the common experience of labor and the new technologies that have constitutive effects and ontological implications. Tools have always functioned as human prostheses, integrated into our bodies through our laboring practices as a kind of anthropological mutation both in individual terms and in terms of collective sociality. The contemporary form of exodus and the new barbarian life demand that tools become polemic prostheses, liberating us from the conditions of modern humanity. 217
fisher_lda_1936.md:When two or more populations have been measured in several characters, ... special interest attaches to certain linear functions of measurements by which the populations are best discriminated. 179
flach_ml_2012.md:Likelihood function $P(X|Y)$ - the probability of an event we know has occurred ($X$), conditioned on something we don't know anything about ($Y$) 27
flach_ml_2012.md:the Likelihood function plays an important role in statistical machine learning. It establishes what is called a _generative model_: a probabilistic model from which we can sample values of all variables involved. 29
flach_ml_2012.md:Geometric models are constructed in Cartesian instance spaces, using geometric concepts such as planes and distances. The prototypical geometric model is the basic linear classifier, which constructs a decision plan orthogonal to the line connecting the positive and negative centres of mass. Probabilistic models view learning as a process of reducing uncertainty using data. For instance, a Bayesian classifier models the posterior distribution $P(Y|X)$ (or its counterpart, the likelihood function $P(X|Y)$) which tells me the class distribution $Y$ after observing the features values $X$. Logical models are the most 'declarative' of the three, employing if-then rules built from logical conditions to single out homogeneous areas in instance space. 47
foucault_order.md:The entire system of grids which analysed the sequence of representations (a thin temporal series unfolding in men's minds), arresting its movement, fragmenting it, spreading it out and redistributing it in a permanent table, all these distinctions created by words and discourse, characters and classification, equivalence and exchange, have been so completely abolished that it is difficult today to rediscover how that structure was able to function. 303-4
fox_keller2001.md:Ibid., p. 617. Bailey, J. E. 1999. Lessons from metabolic engineering for functional genomics and drug discovery. Nature Biotech. 17:616-618.
fox_keller2001.md:Just how the many other players-including regulatory sequences found elsewhere on the genome, the products of many other structural and regulatory genes, the complex signaling network of the living cell-are organized into a weII-functioning and reliable whole is the question that dominates the attention of molecular geneticists today. 72
gamerman_mcmc_2006.md:Likelihood function: - it provides the chances of each value of $\theta$ having led to that observed value of $x$. 43
guattari_molecular_rev_1984.md:Denotation disappears in the face of the process described by Peirce as 'diagrammatization.' The function of re-territorializing images, indexes and concepts is replaced by the operation of signs as the foundation for abstract machines and the simulation of physical machinic processes. ... The stratum of signification disappears no longer are there two levels and a system of double articulation; there is only a constant return to the continuum of machinic intensities based on  a pluralism of articulations. 95
hansen_newmedia_2004.md:Insofar as the sensorimotor nexus of the body opens it to its own indeterminacy, it is directly responsible for the body's constitutive excess over itself. In this respect, motion functions as the concrete trigger of affection as an active modality of bodily action. 7
hansen_newmedia_2004.md:This means that with the flexibility brought by digitization,  there occurs a displacement of the framing function of media interfaces back onto the body from which they themselves originally sprang. 22
hansen_newmedia_2004.md:Viewed in this way, the digital era and the phenomenon of digitization itself can be understood as demarcating a shift in the correlation of two terms: media and body. Simply put, as media lose their material specificity, the body takes on a more prominent function as a selective processor of information. 22
hansen_newmedia_2004.md:[M]achine time can, in some sense, be said to enlarge the frame of the now itself. For if the exposure to machine time functions to stimulate neural dynamics and ultimately to trigger the emergence of new “nows,” then it might legitimately be said to contaminate the now with “elementary elements” that are properly inhuman. 252
hardt_negri_empire.md:The anthropological metamorphoses of bodies are established through the common experience of labor and the new technologies that have constitutive effects and ontological implications. Tools have always functioned as human prostheses, integrated into our bodies through our laboring practices as a kind of anthropological mutation both in individual terms and in terms of collective sociality. The contemporary form of exodus and the new barbarian life demand that tools become polemic prostheses, liberating us from the conditions of modern humanity. 217
hastie_2008.md:Our goal is to find a useful approximation $\hat(f)(x)$ to the function $f(x)$ that underlies the predictive relationship between input and output.  28
hastie_2008.md:The logistic regression model arises from the desire to model the posterior probabilities of the _K_ classes via linear functions in $x$, while at the same time ensuring that they sum to one and remain in $[0,1]$ 119
hastie_2008.md:The _support vector machine_ classifier is an extension of this idea, where the dimension of the enlarged space is allowed to get very large, infinite in some cases. It seems that the computations would become prohibitive. It would also seem that with sufficient basis functions, the data would be separable, and overfitting would occur. 423
hastie_2008.md:Bagging or _bootstrap aggregation_ ... is  a technique for reducing the variance of an estimated prediction function. Bagging seems to work especially well for high-variance, low-bias procedures such as trees. 587
james_1996.md:'but there is a function in experience which thoughts perform, and for the performance of which this quality of being is invoked. That function is knowing' James, Essays in Radical Empiricism, 3-4
james_1996.md: In such a world transitions and arrivals (or terminations) are the only events that happen, though they happen by so many sorts of parts. The only function that one experience can perform is to lead into another experience; and the only fulfilment we can speak of is the reaching of a certain experienced end. When one experience leads to (or can lead to) the same end as another, they agree in function. 63 
james_radical_empiricism.md:'but there is a function in experience which thoughts perform, and for the performance of which this quality of being is invoked. That function is knowing' James, Essays in Radical Empiricism, 3-4
james_radical_empiricism.md: In such a world transitions and arrivals (or terminations) are the only events that happen, though they happen by so many sorts of parts. The only function that one experience can perform is to lead into another experience; and the only fulfilment we can speak of is the reaching of a certain experienced end. When one experience leads to (or can lead to) the same end as another, they agree in function. 63 
latour_aramis.md:The actors’ or observers’ interpretations of the actors’ motivations and interests become more real and less real as a function of the progressive realization or derealization of these interpretations. (Latour, 1996, 172)
latour_aramis.md:Although charged by humanists with the sin of being “simply” efficient, “purely” functional, “strictly” material, “totally” devoid of goals, mechanisms nevertheless absorb our compromises, our desires, our spirit, and our morality-and silence them. (Latour, 1996, 206-7)
latour_aramis.md:To propose the description of a technological mechanism is to extract from it precisely the script that the engineers had transcribed in the mechanisms and the automatisms of humans or nonhumans.  It is to retrace the path of incarnation in the other direction. It is to rewrite in words and arguments what has become, what might have become, thanks to the intermediary of mechanisms, a mute function. (Latour, 1996, 207)
latour_aramis.md:But we still thought, in spite of everything, that the agents mobilized by machines eluded forms and programs. We thought there was a frontier beyond which one really moved into matter, that inert and cold stuff, functional and soulless, which earned the admiration of materialists and the scorn of the humanists. But no, calculators continue to accumulate layers of forms and diagrams, adding them to other forms and other masks, half spirit and half matter, half imprint and half text, without our ever crossing the famous barrier between sign and thing, between spirit and matter. (Latour, 1996, 222)
latour_parts_wholes_2012.md:and ‘functions’. Such an alternative is often called ‘holistic’ or ‘organicist’ (Weick, 
lazzarat_1996.md:The general public tends to become she model for the consumer (audience/client). The public (in the sense of the user-the reader, the music listener, the television audience) whom the author addresses has as such a double productive function. In the first place, as the addressee of the ideological product, the public ls a constitutive element of the production process. In the second place, the public is productive by means of the reception that gives the product “a place in life” (in other words, integrates it into social communication) and allows it to live and evolve. Reception is thus, from this point of view, a creative act and an integrative part of the product. The transformation of the product into a commodity cannot abolish this double process of “creativity”; it must rather assume it as it is, and attempt to control it and subordinate it to its ouni values. 145
lazzarato_signs_machines_2014.md:Asignifying semiotics (stock listings, currencies, corporate accounting, national budgets, computer languages, mathematics, scientific functions and equations as well as the asignifying semiotics of music, art, etc.) are not beholden to significations and the individuated subjects who convey them. They slip past rather than produce significations or representations. 80
leroy_hood.md:First, discovery science is now an accepted concept. Second, the human genome has provided us with a genetics parts list for humans and the other model organisms whose genomes have been sequenced. We must do biology to figure out how these parts function, and now we have them—genes, control sequences, etc.—in databases. Third, the Human Genome Project has given us access to human variability, the genetic variations which make humans different from one another—different in physiology and different in disease predisposition. And it's in this arena that medicine will be utterly transformed over the next 20 years or so.
leroy_hood.md:It allows you to understand the system and how it functions. If you are a pharmaceutical company, it suggests that there are critical points in these informational networks at which one can begin to attack the system, manipulate it, circumvent the limitations of defective genes. We are at the earliest stages of learning how to do mathematical formulations. Once we do, I think it will transform how one identifies drug targets, how one deals with potential side effects of drugs, and how one determines whether a particular drug that has already been approved might do something else that is even more interesting
linux_announcement_1991.md:subset of System V and POSIX functionality.  LINUX has been written
linux_announcement_1991.md:utilities/library functions for minix. If your efforts are freely
lynch.md:To analyze a document's use does not discount its referential functions, but it does demolish suppositions about the essential difference between formulations of “things” and the formulations of “our activities.” 192
malley_statistical_learning_2011.md:working with statistical learning machines can push us to think about novel structures and functions in our data. This awareness is often counterintuitive, and familiar methods such as simple correlations, or slightly more evolved partial correlations, are often not sufficience to pin down these deeper connections. 5-6
marcberg.md:[M]odels of the work, and/or through the processing of input into output formal tools are attributed central roles in organizing work within just about any modern workplace. What is it that these tools do in practice? How do they add to or interfere in the work performed? Answers to these questions are highly relevant for all those who believe that technology design might be improved through theoretical insight into the processes of everyday work. Yet any answer has to sail a risky course between either granting too much power and self-sufficiency to the tool at the expense of the workers (and thus replicating the rationalist discourses of ‘naive formalists' (Star, 1995)) or overly stressing the versatile and creative skill of the human workers versus the 'rigidity' of the formal tool. Both alternatives overlook how it is in the interrelation of the tool's functioning with the human workers' work that new potentialities emerge. 141-142
marcberg.md:The generative power of formal tools, then, lies in the very existence of the gap between the workpractice and its formal representation. Through deleting detail the map is functional in tracking a route between distant sites. 153
massumi_brian,_parables_of_the_virtual,_duke_univ.md:This autonomization of relation is the condition under which “higher” functions feed back. (35)
massumi_parables.md:This autonomization of relation is the condition under which “higher” functions feed back. (35)
medical statistics _ bland.md:Hence, the relative frequency distribution for the whole population gives us the probability distribution of the variable. We call this curve the probability density function. 104
milleplateux.md:We thus come to the question, What is a collective body? Undoubtedly the great collective bodies of a State are differentiated and hierarchical organisms that on the one hand enjoy a monopoly over a power or injunction and on the other hand send out local representatives. They have a special relation to families, because they link the Family Model to the State model at both ends and regard themselves as “great families"of functionaries, clerks, intendants, or farmers. Yet it seems that in many of these collective bodies there is something else at work that does not fit into this schema. It is not just their obstinate defense of their privileges. It  is also their aptitude-even caricatural or seriously deformed-to constitute themselves as a war machine, following other models, another dynamism, a nomadic ambition, over against the state. 366 
mitchell_machine_learning_1997.md:The naive Bayes classifier applies to learning tasks where each instance $x$ is described by a conjunction of attribute values and where the target functino $f(x)$ can take on any value from some finite set $V$. A set of training examples of the target function is provided, and a new instance is presented, described by the tuple of attribute values $<a_1, a_2 ... a_n>$. The learner is asked to predict the target value, or classification, for this new instance. 177
mitchell_me++_2003.md:With the emergence of 802.11 wireless networks in the early 2000s, a new field of functional possibility superimposed itself on public space. This hub-and-card technology provided convenient connectivity for wireless laptops, and enthusiasts set about creating public wireless hotspots. These first emerged in semi-public spaces – such as cafés, bars, lobbies, waiting rooms, and airport lounges-which suddenly became much more useful as ad hoc workplaces and online interaction points; instead of reading a newspaper, you could download your email or surf the Web. (If you want privacy, you learned to take the seat against the wall, and keep the back of your screen to the public.) Then hotspots migrated outdoors. Midtown Manhattan's Bryant Park was one of the first outdoor public places to provide for 802.11 surfing under the trees and email from a park bench. (157-8)
parisi_2013.md:automated prehensions have unleashed incomputable probabilities into everyday culture. Postcybernetic control harnesses dysfunctions, errors, and crisis by axiomitizing the irreversible advance of randomness, but it also works to script uncertainties within the programming of relations. 116
pauly_jacques_loeb_1987.md:experimentation gained significance beyond its ordinary function of providing determinate answers to definite problems within a hypothetical-deductive schema. 5
peirce_pragmatism_1960.md:We reflect that the whole function of thought is to produce habits of action; and that whatever there is connected with a thought, but irrelevant to its purpose, is an accretion to it, but no part of it. If there be a unity among our sensations which has no reference to how we  shall act on a given occasion, as when we listen to a piece of music, why we do not call that thinking. §400
rabinow_anthropos_2003.md:True discourses were equipment to the extent that they had been assimilated thoroughly, made to  function as rational principles of action. 10
rodowick.md:Understanding what virtualities reside in the forces unleashed by cybernetic arrangements may well mean unlocking how technological concepts translate into new categories of social experience, or how a machine logic or architecture may insinuate itself into the relations of power that flow through us and connect us one to another. Even “scientific" concepts remain external to the technologies in which they are functionalized, and in this way they express sets of powers or potentialities that can flow in contrary directions. 228      	            
sennett_flesh_stone_1994.md:Rapid movement, such as occurs in an automobile, encourages the use of an image repertoire, that disposition to classify and to judge immediately. Fragmented geography also strengthens the image repertoire, since on the periphery each fragment has its special function-home, shopping, office, school-spearated by empty places from other fragments. ... By using an image repertoire to withdraw from others, the individual feels more at ease. 366
stelarc_alternate_interfaces.md:[T]oday it is possible to identify in bio-mechanical-genetic art works, an auto-generative component that is inherent in the work of art; it allows the defining of such a work as an auto-regenerative/auto-functioning art system. At the foundation of such art is the idea that the programmer of the art work is the art work itself.(13)
stelarc_alternate_interfaces.md:It is a more intuitive and interactive system that does not function through intelligence but rather because of its architecture. It is a more compliant and flexible mechanism. (60)
stengers_d&g_2005.md:No function can deal with learning, producing, or empowering new habits, as all require and achieve the production of different worlds, non-consensual worlds, actively diverging worlds (Stengers, 2005, 162). 
tanenbaum.md:The other broad category of system calls relates to the file system. As noted before, a major function of the operating system is to hide the peculiarities of disks and other I/O devices, and present the programmer with a nice, clean abstract model of device-independent files. 16
thacker_biomedia_2004.md:[B]ioinformatics tools are an example of computer programming creating a context in which certain biological components and processes may function as they do “naturally” in vivo or in vitro. 21
thacker_biomedia_2004.md:What computer science brings to the concepts of molecular biology is the same thing that genetic engineering techniques have brought to it: namely, a view of “the biological” as more than static substance, but relations and functionalities that can be isolated, extracted, relocated, and designed in a range of experimental contexts. 53
thibaud_walkman_2003.md:The Walkman functions like a technological device that introduces the senses within the urban territory. The thresholds, knots, and arrangements it creates need to be apprehended .. according to the variable combinations of visibility and audibility. 340
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:new function estimation methods have been created where a high dimensionality of the unknown function does not always require a large number of observations in order to obtain a good estimate. The new methods control generalization using capacity factors that do not necessarily depend on the dimensionality of the space vii
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:(i) A generator (G) of random vectors $x E R^n$, drawn independently from a fixed by unknown probability distribution function $F(x)$
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:(ii) A supervisor (S) who returns an output value $y$ to every input vector $x$, according to a conditional distribution function $F(y|x)$, also fixed by unknown
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:(iii) A learning machine (LM) capable of implementing a set of functions $f(x, \alpha), \alpha E \Lambda$
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:The problem of learning is that of choosing from the given set of functions  $f(x, \alpha), \alpha E \Lambda$, the one that best approximates the supervisor's response. 17
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:The problem is to use the sample to find the function from the set of admissable functions that minimizes the probability of error. 31
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:In the framework of the classical paradigm all models of function estimation are based on the maximum likelihood function. It forms an inductive engine in the classical paradigm.  24
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:The VC dimension of the set of functions (rather than the number of parameters) is responsible for the generalization ability of learning machines. This opens remarkable opportunities to overcome the "curse of dimensionality" 83
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:learning is a problem of _function estimation_ on the basis of empirical data 291
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:Mostly, however, we face another situation.  ... In other words, we face the problem of estimating the _values of the unknown function at given points._ 291
vapnik_nature_of_statistical_learning_theory_2000.md:The matter is that in solving the function estimation problem in both computational statistics (say pattern recognition, regression, density estimation) and in computation mathematics(...), the first step is describing (parameterizing) a set of functions in which one is looking for a solution 297
whiteheadmodes.md:Thus beyond all questions of quantity, there lie questions of pattern, which are essential for the understanding of nature. Apart from a presupposed pattern, quantity determines nothing. Indeed quantity itself is nothing other than analogy of functions within analogous patterns 195
whiteheadmodes.md:We have to construe the world in terms of the bodily society,  and the bodily society in terms of the general functionings of the world. 225
whiteheadmodes.md:The sort of functioning here termed 'conceptual experience' is the entertainment of possibilities for ideal realization in abstraction from any sheer physical realization.The most obvious example of conceptual experience is the entertainment of alternatives. 229
xpexplained.md:Customer A role on the team for choosing what stories the system has to satisfy, what stories are neede first and what can be deferred and for defining tests to verify the correction functioning of the stories.(Beck, 2000, 177)
xue_svm_2009.md:The kernel trick is another commonly used technique to solve linearly inseparably problems. This issue is to define an appropriate kernel function based on the _inner product_ between the given data, as a nonlinear transformation of data from the input space to a feature space with higher (even infinite) dimension in order to make the problems linearly separable. The underlying justification can be found in _Cover's theorem_ on the separability of patterns; that is, a complex pattern classification problem case in a high-dimensional space is _more likely_ to be linearly separable than in a low dimensional space. 42
zehle_african_software_2005.md:Soft trains the majority of Ghana's programmers, often left to their own devices in poorly equipped computer science departments. Yet Chinery-Hesse thinks that FLOSS would impede the development of a local software industry, as developers would, he worries, be reduced to installers of pre-existing applications. His main concern, however, seems to be possible tampering with the code both by users and competitors -- Chinery-Hesse fears internal mismanagement and has no interest in interoperability that could threaten Soft's pole position in the local software market. Soft rarely releases beta versions, software does not have an autoinstall function, and bug fixes are not generally released. Evidence of Chinery-Hesse's entrepreurial pragmatism, he has also entered into a cooperation agreement with Microsoft, hoping to take advantage of its global distribution channels to bring an add on from Ghana to desktops around the world.
zyllinska_hall_stelarc.md:When I talk about the obsolete body I don't mean that we should discard bodies altogether, but rather that a body with this form and these functions cannot operate effectively in the technological terrain that it has created. (Zylinska & Hall, 122)
zyllinska_hall_stelarc.md:But I suspect we make very different metaphysical assumptions as to what we mean by the obsolete body. The body is obsolete in form and function. But we cannot operate disembodied. (121)
